hey guys if you read the title before
you clicked on this video then you know
I'm gonna address the question of the
interpretation of a particular story
written by george RR martin by a
particular interpreter a famous
commentator on the literature preston
jacobs before I get to that I'm gonna
say a few words about myself and my
interest in a Song of Ice and Fire or
slash george RR martin for some of you
this is the first time you ever seen my
channel for some of you you've been
watching my channel steadily and you're
sitting there wondering what is this
because i don't think i've ever had
another video talking about fiction
unless you consider rap music fiction in
a sense it is um some of its nonfiction
I don't want to hazard a guess as to
what percentage but look I do roll with
a song of ice and fire heavy I've been
reading the books for years and I've
been planning to come on YouTube and
contribute my voice to the debates
surrounding the interpretation of the
book for years and during the last
several months several times I've
invited other people to come on my
channel to talk about it with me one of
the reasons being I actually didn't want
to talk about the books in this kind of
overly intense staring into the camera
format I thought it'd be better to have
more casual two or three you know to
person conversation or you know three or
four people in a roundtable format to
take the edge off a bit because um it
gets intense
my main interest my first university
degree is in political science and the
themes that interests me most in the
books are political philosophy there's a
lot of for me really moving really
interesting political content in the
books um sometimes you meet people who
read the books for like the teen romance
people who are really interested in who
is going to be Sansa Starks next
boyfriend I don't thing against those
people but I think even if you're of
that kind of fan of the book you like
the romantic elements I think you have
to admit as a work of literature you
know the Song of Ice and Fire or the
Canon of George Aaron it would have
never stood out on the strength of its
romantic elements it really stands out
on the one hand because of its world
building but in the other hand really
because of the strength of its political
content its political philosophy
it's reflections on political themes and
I would say those two are linked the
world building would be meaningless
without the strange sense of political
realism that's woven into that world so
that's that's the intro my specific
topic for this video is the
interpretation or misinterpretation of a
Georgia or Martin story from the 1970s
called and seven times never Killman
address by Preston Jacobs this is not a
hate video against Preston Jacobs
Preston Jacobs is one of these guys who
goes way out on a limb and his
interpretations sometimes he's right
sometimes he's wrong and as he says
sometimes he's wrong about half of this
stuff um
Preston went wailed on a limb not too
long ago in interpreting a series of
stories by george RR martin in the tough
voyaging series as all being a set of
philosophical reflections on the
philosophy of plato's republic and i
remember from the first time he started
up with that i disagree with him i just
thought he was dead wrong I don't think
the author had that in mind and then
it's a really funny thing but Preston
met the author it's a very rare thing
for someone who's a literary critic to
meet the author whose work he's
commenting on and Preston got tech
confirmed for himself that no those
stories were not about the philosophy of
Plato they were not hope that his
Republic at all however for those of you
were watching the story and have no idea
why a guy like me would be interested in
George our Martin already this tells you
why you know the material is actually
sophisticated enough it is interesting
enough to really keep my eyes on the
page I feel that Preston totally
fundamentally missed the point of this
story and in a sense he missed the plot
of the story and the fundamental plot
twist so if you don't know if you
haven't read the story you haven't heard
what presidents say about it at the
beginning of this story the plot begins
the fundamental basis for the plot is
that a trader in antiquities he doesn't
only trade is a trader generally arrives
on a planet and he is trying to make
money out of selling the ancient art the
traditional religious art of an alien
civilization on an alien planet that's
the fundamental basis for the plot now
obviously doesn't sound
exciting but we get comments on the art
on the sculptures of these people from
different perspectives as the plot goes
ahead it's a light motif that they come
back to and then at the end the plot
twist is revealed through those statutes
through the interpretation of the works
of art Preston completely misses this
what are we told about the works of art
they're worthless because they're too
human alien art is supposed to be exotic
and represent an alien civilization and
instead when these works of art were
prevented presented to experts no no
these are by human beings these
represent human religions human gods
they're there
they've just been made alien in style
but this is not actually alien art I
realize I'm not quoting the book
directly I'm paraphrasing what is
revealed in that right but I mean
directly you're told they they're so
certain that these are human this is
human culture human religion human gods
and these statues that the other
character comes in at the end of the
story says it's ridiculous he must have
trained these aliens to make an
imitation of human art human culture and
we know he didn't do that if we're
reading the story in the end okay and
the second thing that's significant for
understanding Georgia style of writing
and is significant for a Song of Ice and
Fire also is that George very often
gives us shall we say very spare very
select physical descriptions of
characters including you know magical
characters who have very strange
appearances or aliens or elves or
whatever you're gonna say um so like in
Song of Ice and Fire many people read
the books and they think they've had a
very good description of what the
children of the forest looks like
they've just their imagination is filled
in the blanks but then when they go back
on a second reading or they look around
in the internet and they put together
the physical description the author has
given you almost nothing to work with
the description there's a very
intentional evasion of any physical
description of what these characters
look like right so in this story George
again this is part
his style he does this quite
intentionally in many different stories
in different contexts and throughout the
Song of Ice and Fire although not always
that's also interesting some of the
groups that are not so important to the
plot we do get a very full description
of Sol it's intentional when he omits
these things and it's intentional what
he includes the one feature that is very
clear it throughout the story Jorge
describes their eyes so the Jane Chee
however you want to pronounce them these
these supposed aliens who made the
sculptures who made the artifacts that
the protagonist is trying to trade that
meaning the story their eyes are golden
in color and we get many descriptions of
their eyes right and at the end of the
story the human colonists who are being
in a sense brainwashed by the planet
it's a little bit mysterious what's
going on they're being brainwashed by
the gods of this planet by these
religious / technological icons so part
of the story their eyes are turning gold
there's flecks of gold in the eyes of
the the brainwash character right so
these are the two pieces of evidence the
reader is presented with the gold eyes
they're mentioned a hundred times and
again the statues that are mission
Ephraim and Preston misses both of them
utterly
he completely misses the point President
does correctly notice that the story
suggests at the beginning that these
aliens presumed aliens they seem to have
regrets that in the past they had a more
advanced civilization and they all have
a less regressive elation the point is
when you read the whole story beginning
to end your conclusion must be they
regressed from being human beings they
used to be human they used to have a
human civilization and in the
description of them in Preston just Ava
says well they're ape-like you know
their features have changed somewhat
from being human beings but we already
see that happen with the other human
colonists with their eyes turning gold
and their whole society is transformed
etcetera etcetera now obviously I don't
need to spell it out um most of the
story is a set of reflections on
religious authority I'm well
and considerable space is given to the
fact that the people who believe in
these religions simply don't ask
questions and simply don't have answers
for questions that seems so obvious and
essential to civility there's a lot of
material or that I think that Suffolk's
mind to interpret that for you on
YouTube this story does a good enough
job tell them but in terms of what
Preston missed there are only two
possible interpretations of the statues
which again it's not subtle they're
there in the beginning of the story
they're crucial the end of the story and
they're mentioned during either the
statues mean that these people used to
be human that's I think the clearest
interpretation or you interpret it to
mean that these people on this planet
have repeatedly received human visitors
and have repeatedly repelled the human
visitors by assimilating their culture
by appropriating human religion human
idols that this has happened again and
again now actually if you read the story
that's that's not what is suggesting
including the fact that we're told about
history of the planet etc so and the
other thing is that second
interpretation if you think it's wave
after wave of human colonists that's
given them this culture these these
religious icons that doesn't explain the
issue of the gold eyes and the fact that
the the human religious lead the
colonists who's now assimilating into
the planet into the pattern of how that
planet works that his eyes are turning
gold in color so that's it now again not
hating on Preston I think this is a
really interesting example as with his
former attempt to completely reinterpret
one of the stories of George Martin in
terms of the philosophy of Plato where
Preston has gone through the story with
a fine-tooth comb and yet he's missed
the the central element of the plot he's
missed the main plot twist he's missed
what the story is all about I'm not
gonna come out here and boast that I'm
better at this kind of interpretation of
Preston Jacobs I do have a background in
interpreting and explaining Buddhist
philosophy European philosophy and a lot
of stuff about politics I come from a
very
different background I think of a very
very different set of thematic concerns
when I look at these texts but it is
true that in each case in each story or
even if you look at a Song of Ice and
Fire as a series of short stories in
many ways the book it is written it's
one enormous book that's written as a
series of short stories you learn to
appreciate the economy of language
George uses but this the colour of the
eyes thing it's not verbose right we're
just a few words he's putting in there
that's crucial to understanding what's
going on or why it matters and again I
think that's also what George is not
considered a great romance novelist it's
not great for describing love but you
know for me that can be very moving some
of the little moments where George turns
a key for you politically like that I'll
just mention one before I hit stop on
this video you know the fact that in his
fictional world even the worst political
leaders there are some people around who
remember them as great leaders or as
good kings that's very moving to me in
its way even though it's very simple the
fact that you know the Mad King himself
there is still some peasants who will
say hey you know this was a better
society this was a better Kingdom when
the magic you and you get them again
just a few words just a few sentences
and you realize the richness and the
realism of his manner of painting a
political world and that's something I
mean again for me that's moving I know
for a lot of you might read those
passages about politics and it does it
may have an intellectual effect you've
but not an emotional effect but I've
lived in Cambodia where the worst
political leaders imaginable the worst
disasters imaginable involving the
deaths of huge numbers of people you
still meet people who will tell you I
tell you that from their perspective it
wasn't all bad so that's it my first
video on George RR Martin's A Song of
Ice and Fire on this channel there will
be more you have them warned hit me up